Hi there.
Welcome to this master course Java In-Depth.
Become a complete Java engineer.
This is the demo, and I'm going to be your instructor for this course.
I'm a passionate software engineer and an educator with a PhD in computer science, and I have several
years of experience working as a principal software engineer in and around Silicon Valley, developing
complex algorithms in areas such as search, data mining and data integration, where we deal with tons
and tons of data.
And I have used Java for this and I've been using it for well over a decade now.
So I have brought all of this Java experience into this Java Master course, and one of the core missions
of this course is to address certain limitations that I observed in many senior to lead software engineers.
And shortly I'm going to talk about that.
Now, as the course title suggests, the goal of this course is to help you become a complete Java engineer
right by the end of this course.
It's not just about teaching you the Java fundamentals, like the Java syntax or the oops concepts,
which is what most Java courses do.
But to take it a step ahead and help you become a complete Java engineer and a complete Java engineer
is someone who has a comprehensive understanding of the Java programming language, which is one of
the most important goals of this course, along with the many design principles, best practices, and
professional coding conventions for building well-designed software.
And by the end of this course, you will also have the practical experience in building a good Java
based Web application following professional coding principles.
This course has also been rated as one of the top three Java courses on Udemy dot com, and many actually
regarded as the best Java course out there.
This course has already taught tens of thousands of students across over 150 countries, ranging from
absolute beginners to even experienced Java professionals.
Many top companies are also very actively using this course as part of their official training programs.
Now, in this short video, I'm going to talk about why this course was created and what it offers to
differentiate itself from other Java courses.
It is indeed a very unique course.
Now the million dollar question why do we need yet another Java course?
One thing I observed in my career was that sometimes even good engineers who graduated from top schools
and who worked at top companies are failing to write good, clean and well designed code.
Their code works correctly and efficiently, but due to poor design, the code is not maintainable.
That is, it is not easy to understand and hence not easily extendable.
By poor design I mean not following proper design principles and best practices.
And this often leads to several rounds of code refactoring and hence loss of valuable time for the company.
To a large extent, I feel this has to do with the way we are taught programming.
Most courses are good at covering the language fundamentals, but they are still not comprehensive enough.
And many times the focus is on the syntax.
But why a particular feature is used is not clearly explained.
And they almost always never teach.
Best practices and design principles which are critical for writing high quality code.
And most do not include a good project that follows professional coding conventions, although concepts
are demonstrated via small programs, and this comprehensive master course aims to address these shortcomings
in the current courses.
And it takes a holistic approach to teach Java programming.
It covers most of the language features in a very in-depth way.
Everything from language basics to object oriented design to advanced topics like Multithreading database
programming and functional style programming.
Features like lambdas and streams are discussed in great detail.
It's not just syntax, but motivation.
Behind introducing these features is also discussed.
And the highlight of this course is we discuss several best practices and design principles that a good
software engineer is ought to know.
Many design principles outlined in the popular effective Java book are also discussed, and many of
them are actually demonstrated in code.
Using our own custom examples.
Another highlight is that it includes an instructor led project where we develop a full blown bookmarking
web application using technologies like Servlet and JSP.
With my SQL as the database project also follows standards like MVC and TDD, where TDD stands for test
driven development.
So you're going to gain some good real world experience, right, from the comfort of your home or the
workplace.
So these three are the core objectives of this course.
Next, we use Eclipse for writing our programs and a comprehensive Eclipse tutorial is also included
and it teaches you all the things that you need to know as a professional developer, including debugging,
Java programs and unit testing.
Finally, we have a special chapter giving a solid introduction to JVM, which stands for Java Virtual
Machine, and it is an incredible platform on which Java programs run.
Most courses never discussed this topic, or even if they do, they barely scratch the surface.
Several challenging quizzes and coding exercises are included to validate what you have learned.
So together, all of these will help you in becoming a complete Java engineer.
And if you're complete, it means you're confident and a happy engineer.
Only requirement is to concentrate really well as over half to one year of your self-study effort is
packed into this master course.
It is a sort of mini degree in itself.
You can reach out to me if you have any questions and I will respond within a day or so.
And my answers are very detailed and personalised to, if you like what you have heard from me, then
please go ahead and sign up for this course and thank you for your time and have fun.